Skills:

Combat:   Measures your deadliness with blade and bow.
          Each level grants +1 damage and +1% to hit with all
          weapons.


Defense:  Measures your ability to avoid physical harm.
          Each level adds 3% to your chance to avoid attacks.


Magic:    Measures your ability to cast spells.
          Each level grants another spell and increases your
          mana by 5.


Spirit:   Measures your willpower and ability to tap into your
          emotions, whether devotion or rage.
          Each level increases your chance to ignore certain
          status effects by 8%.


Stealth:  Measures your ability to avoid notice.
          Each level increases your chance to remain unseen by
          enemies.


Combat feats:

Quick draw - Switch from a melee weapon to another weapon
             instantly. (You can fire arrows without first
             switching to your bow. However, putting your bow
             away still takes time.)

Whirlwind style - When you take a step, you automatically
                  attack every enemy still adjacent to you.

Lunge - Leap from one space away and attack your target with
        perfect accuracy. The intervening space must be
        unoccupied.

Drive back - Enemies must yield ground in order to avoid your
             attacks, and cornered enemies are more vulnerable
             to critical hits. (When your target has nowhere
             to run, your attacks won't miss.)



Defense feats:

Armor mastery - When your armor blocks an enemy's attack,
                you're twice as likely to score a critical hit
                on it next turn. The exhaustion total at which
                armor becomes too heavy is increased by 25%.

Cunning dodge - Relying on mobility and tricks, you can
                entirely avoid the first attack of each foe
                you face.

Deflect attack - When an enemy attacks you, you might deflect
                 the attack to any other enemy next to you.
                 (The two enemies don't need to be adjacent to
                 one another.)

Tumble - Move up to two spaces while avoiding arrows. Takes two
         turns to perform.



Magic feats:

Master's edge - The first offensive spell you've learned is
                empowered - it'll deal 1d6 extra damage.
                (Affects the first spell in the list that
                deals damage directly.)

Arcane interference - When you cast a spell, nearby enemy
                      spellcasters are stunned for a short
                      time. Additionally, they permanently
                      lose their ability to cast the spell
                      you just cast.

Chain casting - The mana cost of your spells is reduced by one
                if you cast a spell last turn. (This doesn't
                ever reduce mana costs to zero.)

Force of will - Exhaustion will never make you fail an attempt
                at casting. (Casting without mana still
                increases your exhaustion, and you can't cast
                if your exhaustion would exceed 100%.)



Spirit feats:

Conviction - Each turn you're engaged in combat (attacking or
             being attacked) you gain 1 bonus Spirit, and
             bonus Combat skill equal to half that, rounded up.

Enduring soul - Your health recovers over time. You'll regain
                one HP every five turns until your total health
                is a multiple of 10.

Feel no pain - When your health becomes very low (less than
               20%), you briefly enter a state of
               invulnerability. (For about 5 turns, you'll be
               immune to damage, but not other effects.)

Boiling blood - Taking damage briefly increases your movement
                speed. (This effect can stack up to 5 times.
                At 5 stacks, your speed is doubled and you are
                immune to fire damage.)



Stealth feats:

Neck snap - Automatically perform a stealth kill when attacking
            an unaware medium humanoid. (Living enemies of
            approximately human size.)

Disarm trap - Alter a trap so that you can walk past it safely
              (but enemies still trigger it). You can use this
              feat again to disable it entirely.

Corner climb - If you're in a corner (and in the dark), enemies
               can't see you unless they're adjacent to you.

Danger sense - Once you've seen or detected an enemy, you can
               sense where it's safe and where that enemy might
               detect you. Your torch must be extinguished
               while you're sneaking.


