(Forays into Norrendrin is a roguelike game. Don't know what a
 roguelike is? Visit roguebasin.roguelikedevelopment.org for
 more info.)


How to play:

Important commands to remember are 'e' to examine and change
your equipment, and 'a' to use your consumable items.
If your health drops, press 'r' to rest - but only once per
level!


Your torch illuminates your surroundings, but also gives away
your position. If you wish to avoid notice, put away your
torch with 't'. ('t' will also bring it back out again.)


Press tab to look at your surroundings. (Pressing escape or
space will exit most menus and selections.)


If you've learned a spell, you can cast it by pressing 'z'. 


You can view and activate feats from the character screen 'c'.
(Some feats are activated, while some are entirely passive.)


Try switching to your bow and firing some arrows('e' to switch,
's' to shoot). You always have access to five different weapons
and three different armors. 


Remember that you don't need to kill every enemy you encounter.
Some enemies - mostly humanoids - can carry consumable items,
though.


When you find stairs, you can walk down them with '>'. (It's a
one-way trip, so don't leave anything behind!)


Press 'f' now to switch to the command help page. (The command
list can be accessed directly in-game by pressing '-'.)


Command list:

tab : look around                             z : cast a spell 
r : rest to recover health and mana           c : use a feat
t : turn your torch on/off                    s : fire an arrow
e : view and change equipment

i : view your inventory
a : use a consumable item
g : pick up an item                        d : drop an item

> : take stairs to next level              o : operate terrain
w : walk automatically in a direction      x : explore
m : view map for the current level         X : travel

c : view character information (and activate feats)
p : view previous messages

q : quit                             = : change options
? : view the help screen             - : view this command list
alt+enter : fullscreen

(You can also switch weapons with 1-5 on the top row of the
 keyboard, and armor with 8-0. You can press tab to cycle
 between interesting targets.)
