Spell tier 1:

Radiance -- Increases your target's light radius by 2, then
            deals 1d6 damage to enemies within its new radius.

Force palm -- Deals 1d6 magic damage to an adjacent target
              and knocks it backward 1 space.

Detect movement -- Enemy movement will be indicated on the map.

Flying leap -- Fly and move at double speed for a few turns.



Spell tier 2:

Mercurial sphere -- Deals 2d6 magic damage at range, and
                    bounces 3 times (within 3 spaces).

Grease -- Covers the target and adjacent tiles with oil.

Blink -- Teleports you up to 8 spaces away (and at least
         3 spaces away).

Freeze -- Encases your target in ice until they can break out.



Spell tier 3:

Scorch -- Sets your target on fire. (Burning lasts for several
          turns and deals 1d6 damage each turn.)

Lightning bolt -- A bolt leaps between foes (and some types of
                  terrain), dealing 3d6 damage.

Magic hammer -- Deals 4d6 magic damage to an adjacent target,
                stunning it for 2 turns.

Portal -- Creates a portal. The first one won't be active until
          you create a second one. Each new portal will be
          linked with the previous ones.



Spell tier 4:

Passage -- Travel all the way through an adjacent wall.

Amnesia -- Causes an adjacent enemy to forget your presence
           and do nothing for 4-5 turns.

Stone spikes -- Radius 2. Stalagmites appear, dealing 4d6
                damage to enemies in their area.

Shadowsight -- Grants low-light vision and increases
               perception in darkness.



Spell tier 5:

Blizzard -- A freezing storm deals 5d6 cold damage to each
            enemy within 5 spaces and slows them for
            several turns.

Collapse -- Part of the dungeon crashes down on the chosen
            spot, dealing 3d6 damage to adjacent enemies.
            Adjacent walls will crack or break into rubble
            or gravel. A wall targeted directly will always
            be turned to gravel.
            
Doom -- Deals 4d6 magic damage and leaves the target vulnerable
        for several turns.

Telekinesis -- Target and throw enemies, items, many terrain
               features, or yourself. Most objects (except for
               items) will deal 3d6 damage on impact.

