Potions:

Potion of healing - This invaluable elixir will instantly
  restore you to full health.

Potion of regeneration - The potent healing magic in this
  potion will steadily grant you health for 100 turns.

Potion of stoneform - This potion will change you temporarily
  to unliving stone, granting a slight resistance to all
  damage. You'll no longer be able to catch fire,
  and no toxin, gas, or potion will affect you.

Potion of vampirism - Consuming this potion will grant many of
  the powers of a true vampire. You'll fly and drain life from
  living enemies, but light will leave you vulnerable.

Potion of brutish strength - Drinking this potion grants the
  strength of a juggernaut. For a short time you'll be able to
  smash through various dungeon features. Additionally, your
  attacks will deal maximum damage and knock foes back 5
  spaces, and you'll keep moving afterward if possible.

Potion of roots - Drinking this potion will cause thick roots
  to grow from you, holding you tightly to the ground and
  providing defense against attacks.

Potion of haste - Drinking this potion will double your
  movement speed and greatly enhance your reflexes. You'll
  sometimes dodge an attack by leaping to a nearby space.
  You're more likely to dodge in an open area, but be careful
  around dangerous terrain.

Potion of silence - This potion will cause you to radiate an
  aura of silence, preventing all sounds within 2 spaces. This
  can help you remain stealthy, but leaves you unable to speak
  words of magic.

Potion of cloaking - This potion will cover you in shadows, 
  causing you to fade to invisibility while in darkness.

Potion of mystic mind - This potion will expand your mind,
  allowing you to sense foes no matter where they are, and
  granting immunity to stuns, sleep, rage, confusion, and fear.


Scrolls:

Scroll of blinking - This scroll will teleport you a short
  distance randomly.

Scroll of passage - This scroll will move you to the other side
  of an adjacent wall (but not diagonally).

Scroll of time - Reading this scroll will halt the flow of time
  for a single turn, allowing you to take an extra action.

Scroll of knowledge - Reading this scroll will grant knowledge
  of the items in your pack, and of the current level,
  including secret doors and traps.

Scroll of sunlight - This scroll fills the level with sunlight,
  illuminating every corner of the dungeon.

Scroll of darkness - This scroll covers the dungeon in a
  blanket of darkness that suppresses all light.

Scroll of renewal - This scroll's magic will strip negative
  effects from your weapons & armor, charge any wands in your
  possession, and remove any slime or oil covering you.

Scroll of calling - This scroll's magic will find the nearest
  foe and transport it next to you. Immobile creatures are
  immune to this effect.

Scroll of trap clearing - This scroll will cause all traps
  within 12 spaces to be triggered simultaneously.

Scroll of enchantment - This potent scroll will impart a
  permanent magical effect on the weapon you're holding.

Scroll of thunderclap - When this scroll is read, a cacophonous
  crash of thunder sweeps outward, shattering fragile objects
  like potions & cracked walls, and damaging & stunning foes.

Scroll of fire ring - This scroll will surround you with a ring
  of fire, just far enough to avoid its heat...if you stand
  still.

Scroll of rage - When read, this scroll radiates a wave of fury
  over those nearby. Those affected will attack anything
  nearest to them, friend or foe.


Orbs:

Orb of freezing - Breaking this orb will encase nearby entities
  in ice.

Orb of flames - Leaping flames will pour from this orb when it
  shatters.

Orb of fog - Thick fog will expand from this orb when it
  breaks, blocking sight and reducing accuracy.

Orb of detonation - On impact, this orb will explode violently,
  inflicting great damage on its surroundings.

Orb of breaching - This orb will temporarily lower nearby
  walls, which will slowly return to their original state.

Orb of shielding - This orb will create a zone of protection,
  shielding entities within for several turns.

Orb of teleportal - Releasing this orb's energy will create an
  unstable rift. Creatures stepping into the rift will be
  transported elsewhere in the dungeon.

Orb of pain - Anything caught in this orb's area of effect will
  become vulnerable to extra damage.

Orb of blades - This orb's magic manifests in the form of
  several flying blades. These animated weapons fly quickly and
  attack anything nearby.

Orb of confusion - Breaking this orb will release a befuddling
  gas, causing those affected to move and attack in random
  directions.


Wands:

Wand of dust storm - When zapped, this wand creates a billowing
  cloud of thick blinding dust, so heavy that it can extinguish
  flames.

Wand of invisibility - This wand will render its target
  invisible. Carrying a light source (or being on fire) will
  still reveal an invisible being's location.

Wand of flesh to fire - The target of this wand undergoes a
  grisly transfiguration as part of its substance turns to
  fire! It'll lose half of its current health and burst into
  flames.

Wand of webs - This wand will create a line of sticky webs,
  stretching between you and the targeted space.

Wand of slumber - The target of this wand will fall asleep (or
  become dormant, in the case of nonliving creatures) for a
  while. Sleepers will awaken upon taking damage as usual.

Wand of reach - By zapping this wand, you can make a melee
  attack at range (with your current weapon) against your
  chosen target.

Wand of telekinesis - After zapping this wand at your target,
  you can throw it forcefully. You can throw items, monsters,
  terrain features, and even yourself.


